tot=16&topic1=Acetylsalicylic Acid&text1=Acetylsalicylic acid was first marketed under the brand name aspirin by Friedrich Bayer and Company in 1899.  It is one in a family of related pain-relieving substances called salicylates.  Acetylsalicylic acid belongs to a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.  These drugs have the ability to relieve pain and to reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic2=Aspirin&text2=Some time between 377 and 460 B. C., Hippocrates, the "Father of Medicine," treated patients that had pain or fever with an extract he made from willow bark.  By the 1820s, the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was found to be the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving chemicals called salicylates.
Friedrich Bayer and Company developed acetylsalicylic acid, a type of salicylate which it sold under the brand name aspirin in 1899.  Aspirin, which belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), did not upset the stomach as much as the other salicylates available at the time.  In addition to relieving pain, NSAIDs also can reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic3=Drug&text3=When you hear the word "drug", do you think of a medicine that helps people get better, or do you think of something illegal?  Many people only think of illegal substances.  Phrases like "druggie" or "drug dealer" give us the impression that a drug is something evil and harmful.  Drugs can also be helpful and positive.  They can be used to prevent or treat disease.  A great deal depends on how the drug is used; even something as simple as cough medicine can be either helpful or harmful, depending on how it is used.

Drugs affect the structure or function of the body.  That is why drug education is so important.  If we know how drugs affect our bodies, we will be less likely to use them in ways that can lead to addiction or other negative consequences.  Even aspirin, taken incorrectly, can be harmful.
&topic4=Edicts of 1729 and 1799&text4=By Order of the Emperor:
1729
Emperor Yong Zheng bans the sale and smoking of opium except as a medicine.  Those caught selling opium for non-medical purposes may be strangled to death.  Those caught working for opium dealers may be hit 100 times with a bamboo stick as punishment.
1799
Emperor Jia Qing bans all opium use including its use as a medicine.  Opium can neither be brought in to China from other countries nor can the poppies be grown in China to make it.
&topic5=Inflammation&text5=Have you ever cut yourself on something and had the damaged area swell up?  The swelling that occurred after the injury to your skin is part of a reaction by the body called inflammation.  When an organ such as the skin becomes inflamed, it means that your body is causing changes to its blood vessels and that blood cells begin working to heal the cut. These changes cause the damaged skin to swell up, turn red, feel warmer than usual, and be painful.
&topic6=Letter to Queen Victoria from Commissioner Lin&text6=March 16, 1839  
(The letter was never actually sent)

"...So long as you [English] do not take it [opium] yourselves, but continue to make it and tempt the people of China to buy it, you will be showing yourselves careful of your own lives, but careless of the lives of other people, indifferent in your greed for gain to the harm you do to others; such conduct is repugnant to human feeling and at variance with the Way of Heaven...

we mean to cut off this harmful drug forever.

All opium discovered in China is being cast into burning oil and destroyed.  Any foreign ships that in the future arrive with opium on board, will be set fire to, and any other goods that they are carrying will inevitably be burnt along with the opium."
&topic7=Money Made from Opium&text7=LET THE BUYER BEWARE:  CHINA, INDIA, AND THE BRITISH EAST INDIA COMPANY
Established in 1600, the British East India Company (BEIC) was more than just a business.  It was given power by King Charles II of England "to acquire territory, coin money, form alliances, make war."  And in the late 1700s it did just this in another eastern country--India.  In order to expand over a place as large as India, the Company had to borrow money.  If the BEIC could sell more things to China than it bought from China, then the company would make money which it could use to help pay off its loans.  But there was a problem with this plan.  At this time, the people of Britain started to drink tea, and Chinese tea was considered the best.  To meet this need, the company bought large amounts of tea from China, but the Chinese would not buy the British wool and cotton it was selling in return.  This meant that the BEIC was losing money instead of making money from China.  It had to find something that the Chinese would buy. That something turned out to be opium from India.

Opium Money as a Percentage of the Total Money made in British India
Year              British India     
1832-1833             6.98
1837-1838             10.93
&topic8=Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs&text8=Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are a class of non-narcotic drugs used to relieve mild to moderate pain and to reduce fever and inflammation.  Examples of this type of analgesic are aspirin and ibuprofen.
&topic9=Opium Addiction in China&text9=It started with smoking tobacco, and then, tobacco mixed with opium.  But after tobacco smoking was banned by the Emperor Tsung Cheng, opium alone was smoked.  Although opium was probably smoked first in China among people in the upper class, it soon spread across Chinese society until in 1832, even the military was affected.  Addiction to opium was so widespread in the army that many of the soldiers were not fit to fight.
When people are addicted to a drug it doesn't mean that they are just in the "habit" of taking it.  Long term use of opium causes changes in the brain.  If a person becomes addicted, he or she experiences an irresistible compulsion to take the drug, even if it will harm their health or cause them to suffer socially or economically.
Typically, a Chinese opium addict was a man between the age of 20 and 55.  Estimates are that 4 million Chinese (one percent of the population) were addicted to opium around the time of the First Opium War (1839-1842).  In some areas along the coast of China, 90 percent of the people were believed to use opium.
&topic10=Opium Imports to China Graph&text10=gotochart&topic11=Pain&text11=Pain may be uncomfortable, but it is the body's way of sending you a warning.  When you touch a hot surface, nerves send pain messages to the brain to let it know that you are being harmed. While the acute pain of a burn is short-lived, chronic pain from diseases such as cancer or arthritis can persist for months or years, far beyond the time needed to alert the body to danger. 
Primarily, two types of drugs -- analgesics and anesthetics -- are used to control pain.  Analgesics help reduce pain without causing a complete loss of feeling, while anesthetics cause a complete loss of feeling.  Different drugs are used to treat different kinds of pain.  For example, there are different types of analgesics which help control different types of pain.&topic12=Papaver somniferum or the Opium Poppy&text12=Papaver somniferum, commonly known as the Opium Poppy, was first classified by Linnaeus, the "Father of Botany", in 1753.  Although some poppies are grown for their beautiful flowers and others for their seeds that can be eaten, the Opium Poppy is used to produce drugs.  The juice from the ripened ovary (the poppy's fruit) is the main source of the medicine opium.
Opium was used as a pain reliever in many parts of the ancient world, including Greece, Egypt, and the Middle and Far East.  It belongs to a group of analgesic drugs called opiates.  The ancient Egyptian medical book called the "Papyrus of Ebers" (1552 B. C.) mentions opium as an ingredient in 700 remedies.  One remedy calls for mixing opium with fly droppings and giving it to children to keep them quiet.&topic13=Salicin&text13=Extracts of willow bark have been used since ancient times to relieve pain and reduce fever.  Hippocrates, "the Father of Medicine" (377-460 B. C.), used willow extracts to treat the pain of childbirth; likewise, native peoples of North America used it for this purpose and to relieve headaches.  However, it wasn't until the 1820s that the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was identified as the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving substances which includes the drug aspirin.&topic14=Salix alba or the White Willow&text14=Salix alba, originally classified by Linnaeus, the "Father of Botany", is commonly called the White Willow.  The bark of various willow trees has been used for thousands of years to treat pain and fever.  As far back as the 5th century B. C. in Greece, Hippocrates (377 B. C. to 460 B. C.) used a bitter powder made from willow bark to treat the pain of childbirth.  We also know that the native peoples of America used willow extracts for aches and pain.
Scientists have identified the analgesic substance found in certain willows as the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to aspirin and belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).  In addition to relieving pain and reducing fever, NSAIDs can reduce inflammation.&topic15=Second Opium War Poster&text15=gotomovie&topic16=The Treaty of Nanking or "The Unequal Treaty"&text16=The Opium War fought between the British and the Chinese (1839-42) ended with the signing on August 29, 1842 of the Treaty of Nanking.  The first of a long series of "Unequal Treaties, this agreement required the Chinese to pay $21 million to the British and to open up the ports of Guangzhou (known to Westerners as Canton), Fuzhou, Xiamen, Shanghai, and Ningbo to English trade.  The treaty also forced the Chinese to give Hong Kong to the British.  Shortly thereafter, Hong Kong became the main center for the opium trade on the China coast.&done=1&end=end