tot=8&topic1=Acetylsalicylic acid&text1=Acetylsalicylic acid was first marketed under the brand name aspirin by Friedrich Bayer and Company in 1899. It is one in a family of related pain-relieving substances called salicylates. Acetylsalicylic acid belongs to a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. These drugs have the ability to relieve pain and to reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic2=Aspirin&text2=Some time between 377 and 460 B. C., Hippocrates, the "Father of Medicine," treated patients that had pain or fever with an extract he made from willow bark.  By the 1820s, the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was found to be the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving chemicals called salicylates.
Friedrich Bayer and Company developed acetylsalicylic acid, a type of salicylate which it sold under the brand name aspirin in 1899.  Aspirin, which belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), did not upset the stomach as much as the other salicylates available at the time.  In addition to relieving pain, NSAIDs also can reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic3=Drug&text3=When you hear the word "drug", do you think of a medicine that helps people get better, or do you think of something illegal?  Many people only think of illegal substances.  Phrases like "druggie" or "drug dealer" give us the impression that a drug is something evil and harmful.  Drugs can also be helpful and positive.  They can be used to prevent or treat disease.  A great deal depends on how the drug is used; even something as simple as cough medicine can be either helpful or harmful, depending on how it is used.

Drugs affect the structure or function of the body.  That is why drug education is so important.  If we know how drugs affect our bodies, we will be less likely to use them in ways that can lead to addiction or other negative consequences.  Even aspirin, taken incorrectly, can be harmful.
&topic4=Inflammation&text4=Have you ever cut yourself on something and had the damaged area swell up? The swelling that occurred after the injury to your skin is part of an reaction by the body called inflammation. When an organ such as the skin becomes inflamed, it means that your body is causing changes to its blood vessels and blood cells begin working to heal the cut. These changes cause the damaged skin to swell up, turn red, feel warmer than usual, and be painful.
&topic5=Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug&text5=Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are a class of non-narcotic drugs used to relieve mild to moderate pain and to reduce fever and inflammation. Examples of this type of analgesic are aspirin and ibuprofen. 
&topic6=Pain&text6=Pain may be uncomfortable, but it is the body's way of sending you a warning.  When you touch a hot surface, nerves send pain messages to the brain to let it know that you are being harmed. While the acute pain of a burn is short-lived, chronic pain from diseases such as cancer or arthritis can persist for months or years, far beyond the time needed to alert the body to danger. 
Primarily, two types of drugs -- analgesics and anesthetics -- are used to control pain.  Analgesics help reduce pain without causing a complete loss of feeling, while anesthetics cause a complete loss of feeling.  Different drugs are used to treat different kinds of pain.  For example, there are different types of analgesics which help control different types of pain.
&topic7=Salicin&text7=Extracts of willow bark have been used since ancient times to relieve pain and reduce fever. Hippocrates, "the Father of Medicine" (377-460 B. C.) used willow extracts to treat the pain of childbirth; likewise, native peoples of North America used it for this purpose and to relieve headaches. However, it wasn't until the 1820s that the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was identified as the chemical salicin. Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving substances which includes the drug aspirin.
&topic8=Salix alba or the White Willow&text8=Salix alba, originally classified by Linnaeus, the "Father of Botany", is commonly called the White Willow.  The bark of various willow trees has been used for thousands of years to treat pain and fever.  As far back as the 5th century B. C. in Greece, Hippocrates (377 B. C. to 460 B. C.) used a bitter powder made from willow bark to treat the pain of childbirth.  We also know that the native peoples of America used willow extracts for aches and pain.
Scientists have identified the analgesic substance found in certain willows as the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to aspirin and belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).  In addition to relieving pain and reducing fever, NSAIDs can reduce inflammation.&done=1&end=end