tot=13&topic1=Acetylsalicylic acid&text1=Acetylsalicylic acid was first marketed under the brand name aspirin by Friedrich Bayer and Company in 1899. It is one in a family of related pain-relieving substances called salicylates. Acetylsalicylic acid belongs to a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. These drugs have the ability to relieve pain and to reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic2=Alkaloid&text2=An alkaloid is a type of base that is made within a living thing. Bases are chemicals that react with acids to form salts. Familiar examples of household items that contain bases are baking soda and laundry detergent. Most alkaloids are made by plants, and they have been used throughout history for the strong effect they have on the body. Some examples of alkaloids are caffeine, cocaine, nicotine, and quinine. Opium, the juice from the fruit of the poppy Papaver somniferum, contains about 30 alkaloids including the powerful pain reliever morphine, the first alkaloid ever discovered.
&topic3=Aspirin&text3=Some time between 377 and 460 B. C., Hippocrates, the "Father of Medicine," treated patients that had pain or fever with an extract he made from willow bark.  By the 1820s, the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was found to be the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving chemicals called salicylates.
Friedrich Bayer and Company developed acetylsalicylic acid, a type of salicylate which it sold under the brand name aspirin in 1899.  Aspirin, which belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), did not upset the stomach as much as the other salicylates available at the time.  In addition to relieving pain, NSAIDs also can reduce fever and inflammation.
&topic4=Chronic Pain&text4=Imagine the worst pain you have ever had.  Perhaps it was an earache or a toothache.  Now imagine that the pain never stops.  For many, an imagination isn't necessary because they live with unending pain. About 86 million Americans suffer from chronic pain, a serious medical condition that can last for months or even years.  It can arise after a sudden injury or as the result of an ongoing illness such as cancer, migraine headache, or arthritis.  The pain, which may be felt as a continuous ache or one that comes and goes, can make even simple things like moving, sleeping, or working difficult.
&topic5=Drug&text5=When you hear the word "drug", do you think of a medicine that helps people get better, or do you think of something illegal?  Many people only think of illegal substances.  Phrases like "druggie" or "drug dealer" give us the impression that a drug is something evil and harmful.  Drugs can also be helpful and positive.  They can be used to prevent or treat disease.  A great deal depends on how the drug is used; even something as simple as cough medicine can be either helpful or harmful, depending on how it is used.
Drugs affect the structure or function of the body.  That is why drug education is so important.  If we know how drugs affect our bodies, we will be less likely to use them in ways that can lead to addiction or other negative consequences.  Even aspirin, taken incorrectly, can be harmful.

&topic6=High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC)&text6=Chromatography separates the chemicals in a mixture based on differences in their properties. In HPLC, a tube (column) is filled with very small particles of material. The mixture that is to be separated is placed on top of the column of particles. Pumps are used to push a stream of liquid at high pressure through the column. Some of the chemicals have a greater attraction for the liquid than for the particles and move quickly along with it; other chemicals are more attracted to the particles and lag behind. The faster-moving chemicals leave the column first, allowing them to be separated from the slower-moving one.
&topic7=Inflammation&text7=Have you ever cut yourself on something and had the damaged area swell up? The swelling that occurred after the injury to your skin is part of an reaction by the body called inflammation. When an organ such as the skin becomes inflamed, it means that your body is causing changes to its blood vessels and blood cells begin working to heal the cut. These changes cause the damaged skin to swell up, turn red, feel warmer than usual, and be painful.
&topic8=Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug&text8=Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are a class of nonnarcotic drugs used to relieve mild to moderate pain and to reduce fever and inflammation. Examples of this type of analgesic are aspirin and ibuprofen. 
&topic9=Pain&text9=Pain may be uncomfortable, but it is the body's way of sending you a warning.  
When you touch a hot surface, nerves send pain messages to the brain to let it know that you are being harmed. While the acute pain of a burn is short-lived, chronic pain from diseases such as cancer or arthritis can persist for months or years, far beyond the time needed to alert the body to danger. 
Primarily, two types of drugs -- analgesics and anesthetics -- are used to control pain.  Analgesics help reduce pain without causing a complete loss of feeling, while anesthetics cause a complete loss of feeling.  Different drugs are used to treat different kinds of pain.  For example, there are different types of analgesics which help control different types of pain.
&topic10=Papaver somniferum or the Opium Poppy&text10=Papaver somniferum, commonly known as the Opium Poppy, was first classified by Linnaeus, the "Father of Botany", in 1753.  Although some poppies are grown for their beautiful flowers and others for their seeds that can be eaten, the Opium Poppy is used to produce drugs.  The juice from the ripened ovary (the poppy's fruit) is the main source of the medicine opium.
Opium was used as a pain reliever in many parts of the ancient world, including Greece, Egypt, and the Middle and Far East.  It belongs to a group of analgesic drugs called opiates.  The ancient Egyptian medical book called the "Papyrus of Ebers" (1552 B. C.) mentions opium as an ingredient in 700 remedies.  One remedy calls for mixing opium with fly droppings and giving it to children to keep them quiet.
&topic11=Salicin&text11=Extracts of willow bark have been used since ancient times to relieve pain and reduce fever. Hippocrates, "the Father of Medicine" (377-460 B. C.) used willow extracts to treat the pain of childbirth; likewise, native peoples of North America used it for this purpose and to relieve headaches. However, it wasn't until the 1820s that the pain-relieving substance in willow bark was identified as the chemical salicin. Salicin is related to a family of pain-relieving substances which includes the drug aspirin.
&topic12=Salix alba or the White Willow&text12=Salix alba, originally classified by Linnaeus, the "Father of Botany", is commonly called the White Willow.  The bark of various willow trees has been used for thousands of years to treat pain and fever.  As far back as the 5th century B. C. in Greece, Hippocrates (377 B. C. to 460 B. C.) used a bitter powder made from willow bark to treat the pain of childbirth.  We also know that the native peoples of America used willow extracts for aches and pain.
Scientists have identified the analgesic substance found in certain willows as the chemical salicin.  Salicin is related to aspirin and belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).  In addition to relieving pain and reducing fever, NSAIDs can reduce inflammation.
&topic13=Vagus Nerve&text13=In vertebrates (animals with a backbone), the vagus is one of the longest and most important nerves. Its name comes from the Latin word for "wanderer," and it is so called because of its length and many branches. One of its most important functions is the regulation of heart rate.&done=1&end=end